<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Disorders, injuries and Effects of Drugs on the Nervous system</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container592" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1BVlBAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(217, 149, 148); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h1 style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color:#000000"></span><span style="font-size:1.29em"><span style="color:#000000">Disorders, injuries and Effects of Drugs on the Nervous system</span></span><span style="color:#40E0D0"></span></h1>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>There are many disorders and injuries which can affect the nervous system. The use of drugs can temporarily or permanently affect the functioning of the nervous system. How much the nervous system will be effected depends on many things.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="color:#000000"></span><span style="font-size:1.00em"><span style="color:#000000">Alzheimer’s disease</span></span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Alzheimer’s disease is a neurodegenerative disease which means there is progressive brain cell death that occurs over time. The disease is irreversible. It is not yet known what causes the disease. In most cases, the first symptoms appear after the age of 60 but it has been seen in people as young as 40. There is no known cure but the symptoms can be managed.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Symptoms:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>memory loss</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>confusion</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="color:#000000"></span><span style="font-size:1.00em"><span style="color:#000000">Multiple sclerosis</span></span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Multiple sclerosis is a disease that affects young adults between the ages of 20 and 40. The body’s immune system attacks the myelin sheath covering neurons which prevents them from functioning properly. The reason why this happens is unknown. There is no known cure for this disease. The symptoms can be managed with medication.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Symptoms:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>loss of speech and vision</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>difficulty walking</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>pain</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>fatigue</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>memory loss</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<ul>
</ul>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="color:#000000"></span><span style="font-size:1.00em"><span style="color:#000000">Injuries</span></span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">There are many causes of brain and spinal cord injuries, but the most common cause is motor vehicle accidents.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Brain injuries can affect movement, memory and speech but this depends on the part of the brain that is injured. In severe cases, they may lead to long-term mental health issues.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">A damaged spinal cord could result in paralysis and the inability to move or feel anything below the point of injury.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">There is no way of regenerating damaged nerve tissue, however regular occupational and physical therapy may allow patients to regain some feeling and function.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Medical researchers claim that stem cell therapy may in future be used to repair spinal cord injuries, degenerative diseases such as multiple sclerosis and Parkinson’s disease.</p>

<ul>
</ul>

<ul>
</ul>

<ul>
</ul>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="color:#000000"></span><span style="font-size:1.00em"><span style="color:#000000">Effects of drugs (Not examinable)</span></span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Drugs change the way in which impulses are transmitted in the central nervous system, mainly by affecting how quickly or slowly the neurotransmitters can pass across the gap in the synapse. Depending on the type of drug used (e.g.: marijuana,<br />
ecstasy, heroine, tik) either the sympathetic or the parasympathetic nervous system will become more stimulated. This can lead to side-effects such as:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>reduced co-ordination</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>increased heart rate</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>increased blood pressure</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>decreased appetite</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>hallucinations and paranoia</p>
	</li>
</ul>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>




</body></html>