<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Stem cell technology</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container824" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1MXVZAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(209,232,255); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h2><span style="font-size:1.14em">Stem cell technology</span></h2>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>Stem cells are undifferentiated cells that have the ability to grow into any tissue in the body. They may be harvested from embryos left over after IVF treatment, from bone marrow and from blood in the umbilical cord. Skin and cartilage stem cells have also been used.</p>

<p><strong>Notes about stem cells technology</strong></p>

<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<li>
	<p>Embryonic stem cells are the most versatile as they have the ability to form any tissue. However, as the human embryos are killed, this is a controversial technology.</p>
	</li>
	<li>
	<p>Adult stem cells are much less controversial. Bone marrow has been used for a long time to treat cancers of the blood e.g. leukaemia, but other types of stem cell treatments are constantly being explored. Some of the procedures have involved:</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-left: 120px;">o replacing dead cells in the heart after a heart attack<br />
o growing skin tissue to treat burn victims<br />
o growing nerve cells to treat spinal cord injuries and Parkinson’s disease</p>

<p>However, a great deal more research is needed before these procedures are perfected. Parents who believe that there will be success in the future, are able to collect umbilical cord blood from their babies at birth. This blood can now be frozen<br />
and stored for future use. Although such facilities are available in South Africa, it is an expensive option.</p>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>