<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Introducing Life Sciences</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container7" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1DSlBXQBJh" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(51, 204, 102); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

			<h1><span style="font-size:1.43em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong style="background-color:rgb(51, 204, 102); color:rgb(255, 255, 255)">INTRODUCING LIFE SCIENCES</strong></span></span></h1>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p><span style="font-size:0.86em">The aim of this textbook is to allow you, the learner, to be an active partner in your learning experience. The text has been designed to cover all the content you need for Grade 12, and to provide it in a readable manner that communicates all concepts simply, clearly and in the necessary amount of detail.</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="font-size:0.86em">The next few pages will provide you with a broad overview of Life Sciences and hopefully show you its value as a choice for a school subject.</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="font-size:0.86em">Studying Life Sciences also offers you broader benefits: it will encourage your ability to <strong style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal">think critically</strong>, to <strong>solve&#160;</strong><strong style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal">problems</strong> and seek to <strong style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal">understand the world around you</strong>.</span></p>

<p class="MsoNormal"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(51, 204, 102); color:rgb(51, 51, 51); font-size:14px; text-align:justify">
</table>
<span style="font-size:0.86em"> </span>

<table style="background-color:rgb(51, 204, 102); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td style="vertical-align: middle;">
			<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

			<h2><span style="color:#000000"><span style="font-size:1.14em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>What are the Life Sciences?</strong></span></span></span></h2>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<table style="background-color:rgb(51, 204, 102); color:rgb(51, 51, 51); font-size:14px; text-align:justify">
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span>The term ‘Life Sciences’ indicates clearly the two ideas held together in this subject:</span><br />
<span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"></span></span></p>

<div class="kInteractive container container11" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfC1BJDVlRWl0CCgsQBgwCQBcXWxsBBANeTl1GDQ0XAUBXMxQQARoBTl1GVVFJQBcXAxoGDAoAPAYQGwpAVxcfUFlRWl0QBB0QChAmCklKE1BGWlVXWV1XDgMEBEREREdGREpAWQ0TLA0JClcAU0dOTV1ASAkSCQQDAwAXU1lRWl0RBAMbHUdXVx8AU0dXW1xBWFxHSlBXSQAXUxEdGw4QBwojHQMVI0pXLBoWAQMXTl1GVRYXEEAJREdGDAYfTl1GVQwQCUkJREdGCwMTGBwaDg8AQBcXW1BGWgwdBRsVBgwAFxQUREdGTVg2" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 80%; height: auto; clear: both; margin-right: auto; margin-left: auto; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(0, 255, 204); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td style="vertical-align: middle;">
			<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

			<ul>
				<li style="text-align: justify;">
				<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span><strong>Life</strong> refers to all living things – from the most basic of molecules through to the interactions of organisms with one another and their environments.</span></span></p>
				</li>
				<li style="text-align: justify;">
				<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>Science </strong>indicates it is necessary to use certain methods in our study of the subject. The two broad aims of any science are to increase existing knowledge and discover new things.</span></span></p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
</div>




</div>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">We approach this using careful methods that can be copied by others. These include:</span></span></p>

<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">proposing hypotheses (the predicted outcome of an investigation) and</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">carrying out investigations and experiments to test these hypotheses.</span></span></p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Scientific knowledge changes over time as more is discovered and understood about our world; as such, Life Sciences is a constantly growing subject.</span></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>Why choose Life Sciences as a subject?</strong></span></span></p>

<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>First, </strong>to give you knowledge and skills that are helpful in everyday life, even if you do not pursue Life Sciences after school.</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>Secondly</strong>, to expose you to the wide variety of sub-fields within the subject that could encourage or interest you to pursue a career in the sciences.</span></span></p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">If you choose to study Life Sciences at school you will be able to study any Life Science specialisations after school - such as microbiology, genetics, environmental studies or biotechnology.</span></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>What skills will Life Sciences equip you with?</strong></span></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">This subject will teach you important biological concepts, processes, systems and theories, and provide you with the skills to think, read and write about them. Life Sciences will:</span></span></p>

<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">give you the ability to evaluate and discuss scientific issues and processes</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">provide an awareness of the ways biotechnology and a knowledge of Life Sciences have benefited humankind</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">show you the ways in which humans have impacted negatively on the environment and organisms within it, and show you how to be a responsible citizen in terms of the environment and conservation</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">build an appreciation of the unique contribution of South Africa to Life Sciences -</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">both the diversity of the unique biomes within Southern Africa and the contributions of South Africans to the scientific landscape.</span></span></p>
	</li>
</ul>

<div class="kInteractive container container189" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1FV1tAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 80%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(0, 255, 204); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td>
			<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:1.00em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>Life Sciences Strands for Grade 12</strong></span></span></p>

			<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Everything you study this year will fit into one of these three broad strands. These knowledge pathways grow over your three years of FET.</span></span></p>

			<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Within each knowledge strand, ideas should not be studied separately; rather seek to discover the links between related topics so that you grow in your understanding of the inter-connectedness of life. As you study each section or chapter, look for the broad strokes that place it under one of these strands:</span></span></p>

			<ul>
				<li style="text-align: justify;">
				<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Knowledge <strong>Strand 1</strong>: Life at a Molecular, Cellular and Tissue Level</span></span></p>
				</li>
				<li style="text-align: justify;">
				<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Knowledge <strong>Strand 2</strong>: Life Processes in Plants and Animals</span></span></p>
				</li>
				<li style="text-align: justify;">
				<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Knowledge <strong>Strand 3</strong>: Diversity, Change and Continuity</span></span></p>
				</li>
			</ul>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
</div>




</div>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>The Purpose of studying Life Sciences</strong></span></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">There are three broad purposes, which will expand as we continue:</span></span></p>

<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>Aim 1 </strong>- knowing the content (theory);</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>Aim 2</strong> - doing practical work and investigations;</span></span></p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><strong>Aim 3</strong> - understanding the applications of Life Sciences in society - both present society (indigenous and western) and within the context of history.</span></span></p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="text-align: justify;">&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(64, 224, 208); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td style="vertical-align: middle;"><span></span>

			<h4 style="text-align: justify;"><strong><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><span style="background-color:#40E0D0">Aim 1: Knowing the content of Life Sciences</span></span></span></strong></h4>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Within this you will learn to <em>write summaries</em>, develop your <em>own diagrams</em> and <em>reorganise </em>data you are given into something meaningful. Additionally, you will learn to <em>interpret </em>the data you are working with and<em> link it to theory </em>you have studied.Learning content involves understanding and making meaning of scientific ideas, and then connecting these ideas. Theory is not just recalling facts; it is being able to <em>select important ideas, use different sources to learn, and describe concepts</em>, <em>processes and theories</em></span><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">important to Life Sciences.</span></span><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"></span></span></p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(64, 224, 208); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h4 style="text-align: justify;"><strong><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><span style="background-color:#40E0D0">Aim 2: Doing practical work and investigations</span></span></span></strong></h4>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">During a practical investigation it is important for you to be able to <em>make observations</em>. There are many ways this can be done - by making drawings, <em>describing </em>what you see, taking measurements, and <em>comparing </em>materials before and after a certain treatment. After making these observations it is important for you to be able to <em>measure and record</em> them in a useful way. From here you will <em>interpret </em>your data - you will look for the value in what you gathered and <em>discuss the changes, trends, and applications </em>of what you have shown.Life Science is a fascinating subject and one of the best ways to understand it is for you to see it in action. Therefore, it is important for you to know how to do practical investigations. Within this, you will learn many useful skills like how to <em>follow instructions</em> in a safe manner and how to <em>name, recognise and handle</em><em>laboratory equipment</em>.</span></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Finally, you will learn how to <em>design your own investigations and experiments</em>. An investigation is more straightforward; for example, it could involve observing soil profiles or counting animal populations. Planning an experiment would begin with identifying a problem, and then hypothesising a solution. In planning, you would identify variables and consider ways to control them, select apparatus and materials to assist you, and then plan an experiment that could be repeated by someone else. It is also important to <em>consider ways of capturing and interpreting your data.</em></span></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Planning an experiment would begin with identifying a problem, and then hypothesising a solution. In planning, you would identify variables and consider ways to control them, select apparatus and materials to assist you, and then plan an experiment that could be repeated by someone else. It is also important to consider ways of capturing and interpreting your data.</span></span></p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"></span></span></p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(64, 224, 208); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h4 style="text-align: justify;"><strong><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif"><span style="background-color:#40E0D0"><span style="background-color:#40E0D0">Aim 3: Understanding the history, importance and modern applications of Life sciences</span></span></span></span></strong></h4>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Our search of knowledge is shaped by our world view. Therefore, an important concept to be aware of is that modern science (and technology) and traditional, indigenous knowledge systems will sometimes differ in their approach to science.These seemingly opposite views can be held together as both bring a certain dynamic; they should not be seen as opposing forces.<br />
As you study you will be exposed to the history of science and indigenous knowledge systems from other times and other cultures. As you learn a certain section of work, you will be introduced to how that knowledge was developed by various scientists across the ages as they pursued a deeper understanding of the world around them.The third aim of Life Sciences is to show you that school science can be relevant to your life and that studying provides enrichment to you, even if you do not pursue it past school level.</span></span></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><span style="font-family:arial,helvetica,sans-serif">Finally, there are many possible career fields branching out of Life Sciences and, as you learn, some of these will be shown through examples. Different sections would open up different careers choices- <em>in the past</em> (for example palaeontology), <em>the present</em> (like horticulture, game ranch management and preservation) and <em>the future</em> (such as biotechnology and genetic engineering).</span></span></p>

<div class="kInteractive container container657" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1CWlVAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 80%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<p><meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" /><meta name="ProgId" content="Word.Document" /><meta name="Generator" content="Microsoft Word 15" /><meta name="Originator" content="Microsoft Word 15" />
<style type="text/css">
</style>
<span style="font-size:0.86em"><strong style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal">A final word on using this textbook</strong></span></p>

<div style="mso-element:para-border-div;border:solid #EBFFFA 3.0pt;padding: 1.0pt 4.0pt 0cm 4.0pt;background:#EBFFFA">
<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em">The best way to use this textbook to increase your understanding and thereby results would be as follows:</span></p>

<p style="margin-left: 21.3pt; text-indent: -21.3pt; background: rgb(235, 255, 250); text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><!--[if !supportLists]--><span style="font-family:symbol; mso-bidi-font-family:Symbol; mso-fareast-font-family:Symbol">·&#160;<span style="font-family:times new roman; font-stretch:normal; font-style:normal; font-variant:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:normal"></span></span><!--[endif]-->Remember, good learning begins in the classroom so always pay careful attention as your teacher works through it with you</span></p>

<p style="margin-left: 21.3pt; text-indent: -21.3pt; background: rgb(235, 255, 250); text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><!--[if !supportLists]--><span style="font-family:symbol; mso-bidi-font-family:Symbol; mso-fareast-font-family:Symbol">·&#160;<span style="font-family:times new roman; font-stretch:normal; font-style:normal; font-variant:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:normal"></span></span><!--[endif]-->Take note of sections you do not understand and revisit them</span></p>

<p style="margin-left: 21.3pt; text-indent: -21.3pt; background: rgb(235, 255, 250); text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><!--[if !supportLists]--><span style="font-family:symbol; mso-bidi-font-family:Symbol; mso-fareast-font-family:Symbol">·&#160;<span style="font-family:times new roman; font-stretch:normal; font-style:normal; font-variant:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:normal"></span></span><!--[endif]-->Ask questions to make sure you understand</span></p>

<p style="margin-left: 21.3pt; text-indent: -21.3pt; background: rgb(235, 255, 250); text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><!--[if !supportLists]--><span style="font-family:symbol; mso-bidi-font-family:Symbol; mso-fareast-font-family:Symbol">·&#160;<span style="font-family:times new roman; font-stretch:normal; font-style:normal; font-variant:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:normal"></span></span><!--[endif]-->Consider the end-of-chapter summaries and build on them to create your own point-form summary note</span></p>

<p style="margin-left: 21.3pt; text-indent: -21.3pt; background: rgb(235, 255, 250); text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><!--[if !supportLists]--><span style="font-family:symbol; mso-bidi-font-family:Symbol; mso-fareast-font-family:Symbol">·&#160;<span style="font-family:times new roman; font-stretch:normal; font-style:normal; font-variant:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:normal"></span></span><!--[endif]-->Practice re-sketching the given diagrams</span></p>

<p style="margin-left: 21.25pt; text-indent: -21.25pt; background: rgb(235, 255, 250); text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"><!--[if !supportLists]--><span style="font-family:symbol; mso-bidi-font-family:Symbol; mso-fareast-font-family:Symbol">·&#160;<span style="font-family:times new roman; font-stretch:normal; font-style:normal; font-variant:normal; font-weight:normal; line-height:normal"></span></span><!--[endif]-->Work through all the given questions and answers at the end of the chapter</span></p>
</div>
</div>




</div>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:0.86em"></span></p>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>