<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Activity 3: Theories of evolution</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<h1><span style="font-size:1.29em">Activity 3: Theories of evolution</span></h1>

<div class="kInteractive container container115" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1FXldAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<p>1. Jean Baptiste de Lamarck was a French naturalist who proposed his theory of evolution in 1809.</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">a) Name the two ideas on which Lamarck’s theory was based. (2)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">b) Why was his theory considered incorrect and therefore subsequently rejected? (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">c) Was Lamarck’s work entirely without value because his theory had been rejected? (2)</p>

<p>2. Charles Darwin, a British naturalist, made his most important observations regarding evolution on the Galapagos islands.</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">a) List four observations his evolutionary theory was based on. (4)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">b) Describe how Darwin’s theory of Natural Selection would have explained the development of long necks in giraffes. (7)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">c) Tabulate two differences between the theories of Charles Darwin and Lamarck. (5)</p>

<p>3. Below are statements referring to the evolution of species. Decide if the statement applies to Darwin, Lamarck or to both scientists.</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">a) Only the fittest individuals with the most advantageous characteristics survive in a changing environment. (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">b) All members are slightly different and these differences accumulate over time, changing their appearance. (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">c) A whale’s hind limbs were severely reduced because they no longer used legs in the water. (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">d) Species acquire bigger and better structures by the increase in their use and pass these structures on to their offspring. (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: right;"><strong>(25)</strong></p>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>




</body></html>