<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Activity 6: Dihybrid crosses</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<h1><span style="font-size:1.29em">Activity 6: Dihybrid crosses</span></h1>

<div class="kInteractive container container643" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1CW1FAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<p>1. Two characteristics of an animal (length of the ears and shape of the lip) were studied. Each of these characteristics has two variations: Ears may be long or short, and the lip may be a wide or pointed.</p>

<p>A male animal homozygous for wide lips (LL) and heterozygous for short ears (Ee) is crossed with a female animal that is heterozygous for wide lips (Ll) and homozygous for long ears (ee).</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;"><br />
1.1 What term describes a genetic cross involving two characteristics? (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">1.2 Give the</p>

<p style="margin-left: 80px;">a) dominant phenotype for the length of ears (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 80px;">b) recessive phenotype for the shape of the lip (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 80px;">c) possible genotype/s for an animal with short ears and a pointed lip (1)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">1.3 A male animal with genotype EELl is crossed with a female animal with genotype Eell. List all the possible gametes that could be produced by the male animal. (2)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">1.4 Explain how Mendel’s Law of Independent Assortment applies to parents with LlEe genotypes during gamete formation. (4)</p>

<p>2. In humans the allele for short fingers (brachydactyly – a shortening of the fingers and toes), represented by B, is dominant over the allele for normal fingers (b). The allele for curly hair (H) is dominant over the allele for straight hair (h).<br />
Andrew, with genotype Bbhh, married Susan, with genotype bbHh.</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">2.1 How do Andrew and Susan’s phenotypes differ from each other? (2)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">2.2 List all possible genotypes of the gametes produced by Andrew. (2)</p>

<p style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: right;"><strong>(14)</strong></p>
</div>




</div>

<h1><br />
<span style="font-size:1.29em"></span></h1>




</body></html>