<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Auxins</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container545" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1BW1dAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(217, 149, 148); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h1><span style="font-size:1.29em">Auxins</span></h1>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Auxins are produced in the growing tips of stems and roots and in apical buds and are the main hormones that cause plants to grow. They stimulate or can prevent (inhibit) growth.</p>

<p style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">The main functions of auxins:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>apical dominance</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>growth regulation (responsible for phototropism and geotropism)</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">Other functions include:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>cell division (mitosis)</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>formation of adventitious roots in cuttings</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>development of flowers and fruits</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>abscission of leaves and ripe fruits (cause leaves and fruit to fall off)</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="font-size:1.00em">Apical dominance</span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">When the stem grows upward, auxins are produced at the tip of the stem. The auxins move downward and inhibit the growth of the lateral branches. This process is called apical dominance. Auxins thus promote apical dominance. As a result of apical dominance, growth of the lateral branches closer to the tip of the stem is inhibited by the auxin resulting in them being shorter than the lateral branches lower down the stem. This results in tapered growth of the stem (wider at the bottom but narrower at the top).</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;"><strong>What happens when the tip is removed?</strong></p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Once the tip of the stem is removed, auxins are removed and so the lateral branches begin to grow. This is useful in the fruit industry where plants are kept short with more lateral branches, resulting in more fruit being produced. In addition, fruit is closer to the ground and therefore easier to pick.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Remember: removal of the tip of the stem stops the apical dominance</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="font-size:1.00em">Growth regulation (tropisms)</span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>In plants, a response to an external stimulus is known as a <strong>tropism</strong>. When the movement of a plant is away from the stimulus, it is known as a <strong>negative tropism</strong>. When the movement of a plant is toward the stimulus, it is known as a <strong>positive tropism</strong>.</p>

<p>Plants can respond to many different stimuli. We focus on two:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px;">
	<p>phototropism – a response to light</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px;">
	<p>geotropism – a response to gravity</p>
	</li>
</ul>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>