<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Gene mutations</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container577" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1BWFVAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
</ul>

<table style="background-color:rgb(167,211,255); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h2>Gene mutations</h2>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>Gene mutations occur during <strong>replication </strong>if a base pair is added, left out or doubled up. This changes the sequence of bases in DNA. Examples of gene mutations are haemophilia, colour-blindness, sickle cell anaemia, albinism.</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<p>Haemophilia and colour blindness are sex-linked gene mutations on the Xchromosome.</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<p>Sickle cell anaemia is an autosomal disease common in Central Africa, India and South America. It is caused by a gene mutation which results in a faulty haemoglobin molecule being formed. The red blood cells which are made have a half-moon shape (hence the term ‘sickle’). Not only can these cells not carry enough oxygen (resulting in anaemia), but the shape means that the cells stick to each other blocking small capillaries. This causes damage in organs such as the brain and kidneys.</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<p>Albinism is a rare group of genetic disorders which results in a lack of the pigment melanin. It is caused by a recessive gene mutation which prevents the normal development of colour in skin, hair or eyes.Unfortunately, there are many prejudices towards albinos. They are often portrayed as villains in movies, are regarded as bringing bad luck, and are at times murdered for their body parts. Albinos have weak eyes that are light sensitive and have a very light skin that is susceptible to skin cancer. They are perfectly normal in all other respects.</p>
	</li>
</ul>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>