<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Alternatives to evolution</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container948" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1NW1pAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(167,211,255); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h1 style="text-align: justify;"><span style="font-size:1.29em"><span style="color:#000000">Alternatives to evolution</span></span><span style="color:#40E0D0"></span></h1>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Evolution is a well-established scientific theory based on real-world observation. Nevertheless, various alternative explanation are proposed. These include:</p>

<h6 style="text-align: justify;">Creationism</h6>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Creationists believe that all life was created individually by a supreme being using supernatural powers. They do not believe that an existing species evolved from an earlier species.</p>

<h6 style="text-align: justify;">Intelligent Design</h6>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Proponents of intelligent design do not accept stages of natural selection since nothing can evolve out of something simple to become more complex. The complexity of things points to an intelligent cause.</p>

<h6 style="text-align: justify;">Theistic Evolution</h6>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Theistic evolutionists believe in a divine being that created the material world through the natural processes that we refer to as evolution. Evolution is simply the tool that the supreme being uses to create the diversity and complexity of life around us. For<br />
theists, science and religion can co-exist.</p>

<h6 style="text-align: justify;">Literalism</h6>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Literalists interpret their scriptural texts literally. Christian literalists take the creation accounts in the Book of Genesis literally. Literalists embrace a very narrow, more restricted version of creationism.</p>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>