<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>Origin of ideas about origins</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container635" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1CXFdAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(167,211,255); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h1><span style="color:#000000"></span><span style="font-size:1.29em"><span style="color:#000000">Origin of ideas about origins</span></span><span style="color:#40E0D0"></span></h1>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The theory of evolution has been developed over many years by many different scientists and is regarded as a scientific theory since various hypotheses relating to evolution have been tested and verified over time.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">&#160;</p>

<div style="mso-element:para-border-div;border:solid #FFE389 6.0pt;padding: 0cm 5.0pt 0cm 0cm;background:#FFE389;margin-left:22.7pt;margin-right:0cm">
<p class="Notes" style="margin-top:6.0pt;margin-right:0cm;margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm;margin-bottom:.0001pt;background:#FFE389"><strong style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal">Theory vs Hypothesis</strong></p>

<p class="Notes" style="margin-top:6.0pt;margin-right:0cm;margin-bottom:0cm; margin-left:0cm;margin-bottom:.0001pt;background:#FFE389">A <strong style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal">theory</strong> is an explanation of something that has been observed in nature which can be supported by facts, generalisations, tested hypotheses, models and laws. A <strong style="mso-bidi-font-weight:normal">hypothesis</strong> is a possible solution to a problem.</p>
</div>

<p style="text-align: justify;">&#160;</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The word <strong>evolution </strong>simply means change over time. Evolution is the process by which organisms develop over time from earlier forms. <strong>Biological evolution</strong> refers to any genetic change in a population that is inherited and becomes a characteristic of that population over several generations.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(209,232,255); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h2><span style="font-size:1.14em"><span style="color:#000000">Evidence for evolution</span></span><span style="color:#40E0D0"></span></h2>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<div class="kInteractive container container205" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1GX1dAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 80%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td style="width: 20%;"><strong>Fossils</strong></td>
			<td>covered in Grade 10
			<ul>
				<li>Different fossils are found in different rock layers with the oldest fossils in the oldest rock layers with transitional fossils present.</li>
				<li>This systematic change through time is termed <strong>descent with modification</strong>.</li>
				<li>The evidence shows characteristics that make organisms similar to one another largely from the study of fossils</li>
			</ul>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><strong>Bio-geography</strong></td>
			<td>covered in Grade 10
			<ul>
				<li>Biogeography is the study of where species are found and why they are found there.</li>
				<li>There are many different collections of plants and animals in regions of the same line of latitude, with similar climates and conditions, suggesting such organisms have a shared ancestor.</li>
			</ul>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><strong>Genetics</strong></td>
			<td>new concept for Grade 12 – see below
			<ul>
				<li>Species that are closely related have a greater genetic similarity to each other than distant species and therefore share a more recent common ancestor.</li>
			</ul>
			</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td><strong>Other evidence</strong></td>
			<td>not studied in school – embryology, vestigial organs, comparative anatomy</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>&#160;</p>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(209,232,255); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h2><span style="font-size:1.14em"><span style="color:#000000">Genetic evidence and variation</span></span></h2>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The study of genetics deals with the similarities in and differences of related organisms. Genetic evidence that organisms are closely related and are likely to have a common ancestor includes:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">identical DNA structure</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">similar sequence of genes</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">similar portions of DNA with no functions</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 80px; text-align: justify;">similar mutations (mitochondrial DNA)</li>
</ul>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Species that are closely related have a greater similarity to each other than more distantly related species.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">There is also some degree of variation between individuals of the same species in a population. This variation may be caused by:</p>

<ul>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p><strong>Crossing over</strong> during Prophase I of meiosis involves an exchange of genetic material, leading to new combinations of maternal and paternal genetic materials in each new cell / gamete resulting from meiosis.</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p><strong>Random arrangement of maternal and paternal chromosomes </strong>at the equator during metaphase allows different combinations of chromosomes / chromatids to go into each new cell / gamete resulting from meiosis, making them different.</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p><strong>Random fertilisation</strong> between different egg cells and different sperm cells formed by meiosis result in offspring that are different from each other.</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p><strong>Random mating</strong> between organisms within a species leads to a different set of offspring from each mating pair.</p>
	</li>
	<li style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;">
	<p>A <strong>mutation </strong>changes the structure of a gene or chromosome and therefore the organism’s genotype. Since the genotype influences the phenotype, it creates organisms with new, different characteristics from one generation to the next</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="margin-left: 40px;">&#160;</p>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>




</body></html>