<!--?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8'?--><!DOCTYPE html><html xml:lang="en-us" lang="en-us" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops"><head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/base.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/kotobeeInteractive.css" />
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../../css/global.css" />

    <script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/kotobeeInteractive.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="../../js/global.js"></script>

    <title>The peripheral nervous system</title>
    

<meta charset="utf-8" />
 </head>
<body>
<div class="kInteractive container container331" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1HXFNAVxcAVjE=" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 100%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<table style="background-color:rgb(233,189,213); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h2><span style="font-size:1.14em"><font color="#000000">The peripheral nervous system</font></span></h2>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p>The peripheral nervous system consists of all the nerves found outside of the central nervous system. The peripheral nervous system consists of 12 pairs of cranial nerves which are connected to the brain and 31 pairs of spinal nerves which are connected to the spinal cord.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The peripheral nervous system can be divided into two parts:</p>

<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p>the somatic nervous system which controls voluntary muscles</p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p>the autonomic nervous system which controls involuntary muscles</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The peripheral nervous system has the following functions:</p>

<ul style="margin-left: 40px;">
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p>transmits impulses from the receptors to the central nervous system via the sensory neurons</p>
	</li>
	<li style="text-align: justify;">
	<p>transmits impulses from the central nervous system to the effectors via the motor neurons</p>
	</li>
</ul>

<p style="text-align: justify;">&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="font-size:1.00em"><font color="#000000">Somatic Nervous System</font></span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The somatic nervous system controls voluntary (skeletal) muscles. The nerves in this system allow the body to react to changes in the external environment.</p>

<p>&#160;</p>

<table style="background-color:rgb(244,216,230); width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td><span></span>

			<h3><span style="font-size:1.00em"><font color="#000000">Autonomic Nervous System</font></span></h3>
			</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The autonomic nervous system controls involuntary actions. The nerves in this system allow the body to react to changes in the internal environment so that homeostasis can be maintained.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The autonomic nervous system can be subdivided into the sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system. Each organ in the human body is supplied by two both types of nerves: sympathetic nerves and parasympathetic<br />
nerves.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">The sympathetic nervous system is responsible for the fight or flight function in emergency situations while the parasympathetic system restores the body to a normal state after an emergency situation. The two systems thus work antagonistically to each other.</p>

<p style="text-align: justify;">Table 2 below shows how these systems work in opposition to bring about homeostasis.</p>

<div class="kInteractive container container35" data-kotobee="Tlg2SlBXFldGREdGUkpAWUpGXU5AVxdDDRoVHEpAWVVRXVALCktAREdGREpAWRsNHwdAVxcfREdGCyoKGw4aC0dXVwkAU0cZCR0VAgFRXVBfUAkAU0cECQsWAgETSlBXXxQVTVBGWg0dGQsRHTAEAUxQElBGWlVBR0pGXQAKF0FAEyIdDBsaTl1GVVNJQBcXAxoGDAoAKAAYABBAVxcfREdGSw4TCg4VDkdXVwkAU0cWDywdBwAGSlBXXwAXU1YSDgkUDQlRXVBJQBcXAhoYBx1XWV1OSlBXRhYWUkZHW0pAWUNRXVABDFZEAxkRPx0TGykbHS8KB0xJBFBGWlUGGRoRQ0dXV0FMDFBGWlUcHgMYQ0dXV0ZJAAYHBg4fDkpGXVhAVxdGDhsACQYcDh1HWkdXVwASJQ==" style="color: rgb(51, 51, 51); width: 50%; height: auto; margin: 5px auto; clear: both; padding: 0px; border-radius: 3px; border-width: 1px; border-color: rgb(170, 170, 170); background-color: rgb(255, 255, 255);">
<div class="kbContent" style="padding: 10px;">
<p>Table 2: Effects of the sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous systems</p>

<table style="width:100%">
	<tbody>
		<tr>
			<td style="text-align: center; background-color: rgb(233, 189, 213);"><strong>Sympathetic system</strong></td>
			<td style="text-align: center; background-color: rgb(233, 189, 213);"><strong>Parasympatheic system</strong></td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td style="width: 50%;">increases heart rate</td>
			<td>decreases heart rate</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>constricts blood vessels in the skin (vasoconstriction)</td>
			<td>dilates blood vessels in skin (vasodilation)</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>increases blood pressure</td>
			<td>decreases blood pressure</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>widens bronchioles</td>
			<td>narrows bronchioles</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>decreases peristalsis</td>
			<td>increases peristalsis</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>causes relaxation of the bladder wall</td>
			<td>causes contraction of the bladder wall</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>stimulates sweat secretion</td>
			<td>no effect</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>dilates pupils</td>
			<td>constricts pupils</td>
		</tr>
		<tr>
			<td>stimulates secretion of adrenalin</td>
			<td>no effect</td>
		</tr>
	</tbody>
</table>
</div>




</div>

<p style="margin-left: 40px; text-align: justify;"><br />
<style type="text/css">
</style>
</p>

<div style="mso-element:para-border-div;border:solid #FFE389 6.0pt;padding: 0cm 5.0pt 0cm 0cm;background:#FFE389">
<p class="Notes">Note: Adrenalin is a very important hormone that will be discussed in a later chapter. It works with the sympathetic nervous system to prepare the body for dangerous or stressful situations.</p>
</div>
</div>




</div>

<p>&#160;</p>

<p>&#160;</p>


</body></html>